{sample: true}
# Preface - It's Time (alt: Water Flows Downhill, Most of the Time)

*“Be the change you seek.”* 

—Andrei Merlescu, inventor of [Project Apario](https://projectapario.com), a biblical table flip on the idea of the mainstream media allowing anyone anywhere to contribute open source documents to a worldwide truth repository where researchers may StumbleInto™ or perform advanced searches on declassified records (DECLAS) and Freedom of Information Act documents (FOIA)

*"From a very early age, perhaps the age of five or six, I knew that when I grew up I should be a writer. Between the ages of about seventeen and twenty-four I tried to abandon this idea, but I did so with the consciousness that I was outraging my true nature and that sooner or later I should have to settle down and write books."*

—George Orwell, author of novels, *1984* and *Animal Farm*, and a volume of essays, *Facing Unpleasant Facts*

***

"Man in the Mirror" by Michael Jackson describes where change starts. Look into your own eyes. What do you see? What happens if you were to have a conversation with yourself? With God?

That is in part how this book took shape. 

Half a year ago in May 2022 I began the first draft of [*[S]elections in Minnesota: An Introduction to How Machines Controlled 2020 and Why We Must Return to Hand Counting Paper Ballots*](https://leanpub.com/sim2020). The book was published digitally a few weeks later in June, 2022, with the paperback version debuting on June 26, 2022. 

However, only months before I knew very little about election law, election process, and the electronic voting system. All which it turns out work cleverly in tandum to allow the subversion of the sacred elective franchise.

It was only a year prior when, after realizing that things would not resolve themselves on their own, and after Project Veritas correctly passed on my application, that I found myself in an online group searching for a way to audit Minnesota's election. The last 18 months I've done little else apart from the research, studying, and activity which is summarized briefly in the pages that follow. Most of all, it has been a spiritual journey.

After a youth spent in Houston Texas, Libreville Gabon, Lafayette Louisiana, Jakarta Indonesia, Houston Texas again, and finally Beijing China, after four years in Northfield Minnesota, the last 12 years brought me to three separate parts of the Waterfall City, Minneapolis. Never more than a few minutes from waterways, walking, jogging, and biking the lakes and streams became a pleasurable and contemplative hobby. During this activity, time is occasionally taken to sit quietly. If one watches the water a simple truth may be learned: water always flows downhill. But in Minnesota's elections, it has been shown to do the opposite: water mysteriously flows uphill. Since this cannot occur naturally, it begs the question: How is this accomplished?

In a word: engineering. This book will show you step by step how elections in this state are designed and manufactured, how our votes are calculated, not counted, and what every citizen can do on a weekly basis in their home county to educate their neighbors and election administrators to restore trust in our elections through transparency and accountability.

In a [web archive of Chan Thomas's "Adam and Eve Story"](https://web.archive.org/web/20170123195822/https://www.cia.gov/library/readingroom/docs/CIA-RDP79B00752A000300070001-8.pdf), the author references Prof. Frank C. Hibben who in his book, "The Lost Americans" said "Any good solution to a consuming mystery must answer *all the facts*" about "what caused the death of forty million animals" whose "bones lie bleaching in the sands of Florida and in the gravels of New Jersey" or whose remains "weather out of the dry terraces of Texas and protrude from the sticky ooze of the tar pits off Wilshire Boulevard in Los Angeles" and why "The bodies of the victims are everywhere."

The hunt for who cast the forty million votes (beyond reason) which apparently allowed Biden to surpass the eighty million mark has led Americans from coast to coast and from the upper midwest to the deep south to investigate how digital voter rolls are managed and manipulated, how one stop vote shops like Runbeck in Pheonix print and mail ballots, and how tabulators can conveniently or inconveniently malfunction from Maricopa to Minneapolis.

Elections comprise several domains of knowledge including but not limited to information theory, electronic systems, and black letter law, which is perhaps why few are able to call themselves experts. (Beware those who do.) I do not call or view myself an expert, but I believe I have met some who are, even though even they do not make a habit of presenting themselves as such: Rick Weible, Susan Shogren Smith, Jeffrey O'Donnell, Draza Smith, Patrick Colbeck, Col. Shawn Smith, Mark Cook, David Clements, and Erin Clements. (There are more.) Indeed, I've had the chance to learn through our interactions, observed presentations, and by their example. The conduct of these men and women is in such a way that no large issue can be taken. Despite their likely unknown influence on my study, it is an aim to present the following work in my own style, but also in a manner which defends against simple attacks. In Robert A. Caro's "Working" he describes an early boss's advice to "turn every page." That is simply not possible for one writer to do on this subject, and yet an effort must be taken; not withstanding unturned stones, if this work is presented very well, any attacks will only amplify the message and hasten its spread to those seeking a survey of and starting point in the elections landscape.

Much of what I've studied, witnessed, and ultimately learned was unexpected. Often a position of humility was taken (or impressed upon me). The sooner expectations could be set aside or let go of completely, the sooner and smoother came the learning.

Someone I view as a mentor, Rick Weible, said he set up the website, [MidwestSwampWatch.com](MidwestSwampWatch.com), hoping to cover much more than election data, process, and accountability. A few years later, though, elections remains the sole focus.

A second mentor, Nathan, taught me the importance of patience persistence. However long it takes, and whatever shape the road may be, I intend to walk it.

A third mentor, Andrei, said, "Be the change you seek," which speaks for itself.

Erik van Mechelen
Minneapolis, Minnesota
Dec 29, 2022






NOTES: 

below is from Nov 22 preface...

is it likely I'll write another, probably? 

Leanpub model very good for this :) 




Minnesotans in growing numbers are learning the truth about the charade that are our so-called elections and how few currently elected representatives seem to be on the side of the people as evidenced by their email, phone, and in-person interactions, let alone any tangible efforts. The lack of courage is unsurprising once a light is shone on how easy it is to undermine the people's hoped-for outcomes to select a kind of person unwilling to fight from within the system that chose them, whether or not that individual realizes they were selected, not elected. 

Measureable desire for change was already clear on August 9, 2022. My 90-day Minnesota Secretary of State campaign garnered 36.9% of the vote (nearly 111,000 votes) running as a republican alternative to the MNGOP-endorsed candidate. The solo campaign focused on education. Political consultants' advice was not sought. Instead of events, I attended county commissioner meetings with the people. When I was invited to speak, Party operatives tried to influence the organizers. I ran on a single issue: to repair elections with particular focus on the spider web of the electronic voting system that entangles alert and unsuspecting voters alike. It is a system with many features. Cheating can happen after the polls close. Votes can be hijacked from people who didn't even vote. A ballot inserted into a tabulator won't necessarily read a voter's choices accurately. After unofficial results are in and after those unofficial results are made official through certifications at the county and then state canvassing boards, legitimate and proper audits—sometimes called full forensic audits—are avoided by the powers at be at all costs.

In a massive show of transparency, none of the 87 Minnesota counties even released the automatically-generated cast vote record (CVR) reports from Minnesota's August 9, 2022 primary election. Like any election, without a full forensic audit of ballots, ballot envelopes, election equipment, and registration systems, the integrity of the systems, process, and results can never be confirmed by the voters, which was reason enough for countries like Germany to do away with electronic voting equipment altogether. Fifth graders, who cannot lawfully vote (yet), should be able to understand how votes are counted.

To distract from genuine reports from citizen journalists depicting this lack of transparency and obstruction of public data releases, election fraud deniers—starting with the mainstream media—endlessly parrot tired talking points. So effective is their repetition that some come to believe their banal lies. So strange is this effect that it might be compared to Mr. Smith taking over a civilian's body in *The Matrix*. Most election clerks and auditors robotically claim they are following election law—some making these remarks with a smirk on the edge of their mouths—while withholding basic data requested from their offices in violation of data practice laws. And still potential allies ask, Where's the proof? 

It's time to flip the table. 

Were there ever any actual problems with a simple hand count of paper ballots in small precincts? Was the purpose of more technology concentrated in a handful of companies really to make our elections *less* transparent? Less comprehensible? With databases like the voter rolls and registrations and poll worker data increasingly centralized in the hands of Secretaries of State? (And in cases like Konnech, Inc., alleged to be stored on Chinese servers.)

Or could it be that the intricately connected companies and organizations comprising the election process like Runbeck, Dominion, ES&S, Scytl, Edison Research, ERIC, and Konnech be exactly what it looks like? In 1910 men representing a quarter of the planet's wealth [https://rumble.com/v1cbydb-eustace-mullins-secrets-of-the-federal-reserve-speech.html](secretly met on Jekyll Island) to prepare the way for The Federal Reserve Act of 1913, which Minnesota's Charles A. Lindbergh Sr. opposed, suggesting its passage meant selling the nation's children and grandchildren into slavery. The Federal Reserve Act of 1913 established a banking cartel. What we are witnessing now is the exposure of the election cartel and all its players. (As it turns out decisively connected to the banking cartel.) Their attempt to completely subvert elections was total and made [Bev Harris and Bennie Smith's Fraction Magic](https://t.me/erikmn/2206) look like child's play.

Many countries have already fallen to the election cartel's schemes in recent decades. Brazilians are fighting back with protests seeking military action. Americans are holding the line in places like Arizona with a different set of tools not available to Brazilians. It could be said we are doing it by the book. Which book? (Mark that down as a research question, dear reader.) America's 2020 and 2022 elections will not stand.

At day's end the illusion of a functioning election process is just one of many programs to uninstall from society, alongside global financial controls like the Fed and central banks, medical tyranny orchestrated by the WHO, and the captivity instantiated by your USA Inc. birth certificate and social security number. 

This deprogramming and deconditioning is necessary because the current programming and conditioning enables the old guard through lower level participants who know not what they do and who often act without informed consent. 

It is remarkable that together We the People with guidance from God Almighty through Jesus's example and frequency have gotten this far without civilization level collapse. With active thermonuclear weapons for some decades, the war games have been touch and go for a while now. Staged and legitimate bio and information threats further complicate matters. Much is not as it seems. But since we the people are the news now, it's on us to get out there and not only record history, but make it.

No one said it would be easy to advance. But with the tools we have at our disposal, we can and we will.

The first edition of this book was written quickly and contained many mistakes. Thankfully readers were forgiving and even shared it both with one another and with their county commissioners, making it an uncensorable resource for truth and an antidote to wilful ignorance and plausible deniability.

Following its publication for a time updates were made separately on the [Midwest Seeds newsletter](https://erikvanmechelen.substack.com).

My vantage point into the election system began in an investigative way. I was one of perhaps only a few dozen people at both the Cyber Symposium in Sioux Falls, South Dakota in August 2021 and The Moment of Truth Summit in Springfield, Missouri, August 2022. From preparation for, participation in, and reflection on those multi-day events, I learned a great deal and realized how much more there was to learn. In the last year I have also attended county commissioner and township supervisor meetings in more Minnesota counties than anyone except Rick Weible. These experiences provided national and local level angles of approach into local government oversight and transparency through the lense of the election apparatus.
(REPEATED IN current INTRODUCTION)

In this second edition, corrections have been made and updates are offered in the following areas: 

- a simple map of the election process so that readers can plug into oversight activities locally
- empirical perspectives on the Nov 3, 2020 general election in Minnesota using data from the Office of the Secretary of State
- commentary on the election narrative landscape in Minnesota
- a light exploration of Minnesota's Nov 8, 2022 election process and results
- an examination of Minnesota Statutes that conflict either with one another or with directives and guidance from the Office of the Secretary of State
- anecdotes and snippets from meetings and conversations with grassroots leaders country-wide
- county-level field notes, observations, and suggestions from a dozen Minnesota counties

One difference readers of the first edition will notice in the second is a bit lighter, aspirational tone, combined with a focus on empirical facts, as well as a healthy dose of wit. On this note, bear in mind the advice of Col. Jack O'Neill in the Stargate SG-1 series who warns against trusting those without a sense of humor. The shortcoming of communists and their henchmen and zealots is their inability to laugh and love like we do.

Having noted the role of humor, do not be persuaded that any of this is at its essence light-hearted. This section opens with a quote from the inventor of Project Apario for a reason. Andrei survived a communist orphanage in Rumania where 95% of his peers did not, instead ending up in the global organ harvesting and human supply chain. His "American Dream" childhood and reclaiming of his true name in his adulthood—breaking the chains of the Road to Evergreen's mind-controlling Stockholm Syndrome—allowed him to meet Jesus and in short order complete the proof of concept research utility allowing all of us to perform advanced searches on declas and FOIA records from .mil and .gov sources like the JFK Files which the National Archives released in an unsearchable format further hiding truths about our government's 20th-century communist infiltration. It is no wonder that our opposition is doing all it can to prevent the biblical table flip on the idea of mainstream media that a worldwide decentralized truth repository represents.

May we all work together to end global communism, reduce its nefarious narratives to rubble, and in God's time find peace and happiness. 

It's going to be an incredible journey.

God bless you, 
Erik van Mechelen
November 22, 2022
