# Chapter 1 - Rick and Susan

Ramsey City Hall, afternoon - check video…

Video camera hanging around my neck, I entered the … city hall? (Location?)



Emerging from Telegram into reality… 

october 13, about 2 month after the cyber symposium

a couple weeks prior, i’d been on a call w/ dan sundin and jeff o’donnell, not realizing the powerhouses they were 



This was how I joined perhaps the largest investigation in American history.

It was evening on October 13, 2021 at the Ramsey City Hall and I'd finally decided to attend an in-person event about election reform.

There I soon met Teri, who was organizing this ‘I Thought I Voted’-sponsored event, where Rick Weible would soon present. The videographer was missing, so I offered to take his place. I was new to this, though: from a chair near the front, stage right, I held the camera as steady as I could while Rick began his talk.

Before and since, to a variety of audiences, Rick has described himself as a tax refugee from Minnesota, living just over the border in South Dakota. In the aughts and teens, he was on the city council and then mayor of a small town, St. Bonifacius, on the edge Hennepin County, MN. In 2016 hacked into the converted iPads during KnowInk's epollbook pitch and therefore declined the contract (the only municipality in the county to do so). In addition to a comprehension of election equipment, election statutes, and election process and procedures, his involvement in the Minnesota Republican Party gave him political experience. And he also knew about computers. If they worked, he said, he wouldn't have a computer security business. Rick is humble, kind, competent, and stands in a Biblical foundation, occasionally quoting the likes of James 1:25 in an inviting way. But don't let your compassionate nature fool you. He is more than capable of expressing himself and perhaps only temperance has stayed his hand when others may have lost their cool. 

That evening he spoke first about expectations that the public has, or should have, from local government. Expectations may be justifiably low, but why shouldn't they be high? And is it not true that how the government runs elections is an indicator of how well everything else is done?

Since that night, Rick and I have spoken often and even worked together on a few things. Mostly, I have reported on the work he has done and the work he has inspired others to do. 

Chatting with Teri after, she asked if I knew the shorter woman who'd walked in with me (we weren't together), because early on in the talk she had from the front row turned around and scanned the room with her phone. This was the first clue that this work was going to involve some interesting characters.

Before leaving, I'd hoped to thank Rick for his presentation and more properly introduce myself, but there was another man in a lengthy discussion with him. I didn't know him then, but it was Tom, who would later become the Elections Manager in Anoka County. I also didn't know then that I was to spend a bit of time at the Anoka County Government Center alongside the Anoka County Election Integrity Team (ACEIT). But that would come almost 15 months later at the beginning of 2023.

Not long after, I attended an event in Rosemount put on by Bill where Rick was joined by Susan Shogren-Smith. I learned later these two spoke often on the phone, which made sense given their backgrounds and areas of expertise. Susan provided much-needed expertise on Minnesota Statutes, often filling an entire slide with text. At first I wondered whether it might be easier to pull snippets from the statutes to focus our attention, but later I realized that the context is key...