Most elections in America are rigged and have been rigged for a long time. In recent years, with a fully integrated electronic system, the cheater’s toolbox has expanded beyond mere ballot stuffing to more sophisticated approaches. 

Now, every one of the four components of the election ecosystem, from voter registration, to voter validation, to tabulation, to reporting, can be controlled and fine-tuned to engineer an outcome. Any election can be undermined subtly not only with a high level of precision but also without the knowledge of most voters and most election officials. In other words, rigged elections aren’t new, but perhaps election determinations are.

Newly [s]elected officials may go on to pass laws which further corrupt an already corrupted process, such as the mandating of electronic voting equipment (which facilitates fraud) or making the cast vote record ballot images non-public data (removing the public’s ability to audit the tabulation component of the ecosystem)—both of these were passed in Minnesota’s 93rd legislative session concluded in May, 2023.

It is possible that manual hand counting and hand tallying, which is part of a transparent solution to a host of present issues with tabulation and reporting, could be banned. (If such legislation were passed, it could not stand, at least for very long, so long as the demand for its removal were strong enough.) 

Elections, which were once locally controlled at the county or precinct level, passed for a time into the hands of the state or non-governmental entities, often private corporations. Attempts at federalizing elections, when the United States itself is not far from a corporation itself, doubles down on the threat to state sovereignty and the place of We the People in a functioning republic (which we may not have had since 1871). Instead of adhering to stricter cybersecurity standards and rigorous transparent audits, the contracts that counties or collections of counties have with the corporations that effectively set the outcomes of elections (just as one sets the cruise control on a car) continue to favor secrecy instead of transparency, further eroding trust with the public.
On October 13, 2016, Trump said: “This is not simply another 4-year election. This is a crossroads in the history of our civilization that will determine whether or not We the People reclaim control over our government.”

That implied that we were heading into uncharted territory. Not a crossroads in America’s history but a “crossroads in the history of our civilization”. Human civilization on this planet, on Earth. “Reclaiming” because a coup occurred in 1963 when America’s own intelligence agencies signed off on the assassination of a president who on June 10, 1963 spoke powerfully about peace. “Whether or not” because We the People do have a choice: We can reclaim our rightful and righteous position as a check and balance against the first three branches of government, or we can continue to allow the intelligence agencies to control the flow of information and much else. That would be to act like slaves and be treated that way, ignoring the fact that the Sound of Freedom has been rung and that God has declared that His children are not for sale.

Those who see themselves as the slave owners—those who look down on you who are reading this book—they perhaps do not understand your motivation. Patient persistence towards peace is an everlasting fountain. From that enduring source we are constantly renewed. Remember this also: When God tells us what to do, we cannot hesitate.

This short book is a followup to [S]elections in Minnesota with the same title. Where that book shared anecdotes from my early research through June 2022, this one will share glimpses of what I’ve learned since from those patriots who did not hesitate to defend our country from the enemy within and who I believe will not rest until we have peace.