# Why Cast Vote Record Images Matter

In 2005 cast vote record functionality became a standard on electronic voting equipment and have remained part of the guidelines and requirements for certification.

The reason is simple. The public used to be able to watch the hand count process. Since voters can no longer verify the an electronic tabulator's accuracy (nor security) on election day, the ballot images (part of the cast vote record) is an essential internal audit rightfully made public. The interpretive file of the cast vote record is stored both on the tabulator itself and in the removable media (such as a thumb drive) and once decrypted may aggregate results on a central computer, sometimes called an election management system, either at the precinct or at the county level. 

In many counties and sometimes entire states, the ballot images and the interpretive files have not been released to the public despite numerous legitimate freedom of information (FOIA) requests. In at least one state (Minnesota), ballot images have been made non-public data (as of late May, 2023). Citizens have been right to ask, If there is nothing to hide, why not make this data public? In some cases litigation has been required to encourage transparency from county offices. In other cases, county auditors and election officials have taken it upon themselves to provide this data in useful formats so that citizens may review it. (Logic and Accuracy Tests before elections and Post Election Reviews, also known as risk-limiting audits, are in the first case a shell game because in most states less than 1% of ovals—ballot positions—are audited and in the second case only risk-limiting from the perspective of those trying to subvert elections.)

Fingerprints of Fraud Volume 1 details an analysis of about 200 cast vote records from multiple states detailing unnatural patterns, particularly for mail-in and early voting periods. For this author, the findings of that report are already one of several smoking guns proving election manipulation at scale. 

Recently, Rick Weible used publicly available ballot images from Dodge County, Wisconsin, and printed them onto ballot paper purchased from SeaChange in Minnesota. In other words, citizens could now perform an audit of that county's ballot images if they chose. More forward looking in nature, these hand count studies in South Dakota and Minnesota are laying a foundation for hand counting practices to be used across the country. Eventually we will need a large number of people ready and willing to hand count once the decision is made to use that approach. These efforts in the upper midwest join ongoing work in places like Osage County, Missouri, and Mark Cook's [Hand Count Road Show](https://handcountroadshow.org/) in Texas.

"Running an efficient precinct-based transparent hand-count using Ballot Hand-Count Calculation Stations with integrated cameras that allows every citizen to independently verify every vote and every ballot for no cost. This insures 100% reliability and returns complete trust to our election system. Please see [Mock County’s Election Results](https://mockcountytx.us/election-results) to see a sample of the process."

