# Chapter Four

My given and family name was called and I approached the microphone. I glanced at the commissioner, Felix, who I'd happened to enter the Sherburne County Government Center alongside. I didn't know then, but he had already or was soon to announce that he would not run for re-election after serving 20 years. Since he was, it was said, one of the more independent commissioners, I'd hoped to get his attention with my words. It was April 2022 and I was about to speak in my first county commissioner meeting. Teri, or one of the others that regularly spoke, had given up their spot so I could have a chance.

On that day I spoke about the before and after images from Mesa County, Colorado, which had been unveiled in part on Day Two of the Cyber Symposium in August of 2021, which were copies of the Dominion Voting Systems Election Management System, a voting vendor and system which Sherburne County also used. I also spoke to the built-in capabilities (understood since at least 2003/4 when Bev Harris unearthed the Diebold GEMS source code online) to select candidates up and down the ballot (and then not perform proper audits to ensure legal ballots from legal voters are counted accurately). 

The punchline of Mesa Report #3 is that a duplicate database of the election in Mesa County was created, thus breaking the digital chain of custody of the election records. Therefore the election results for that county, in 2020, could not be verified. Then, a similar thing happened *again* in the Grand Junction municipal election (also overseen by Clerk Tina Peters, whose story is told in the documentary, Selection Code). If this could happen in one Dominion Voting System, it could happen in any of them, wherever they were used, including in Sherburne County.

I urged the commissioners to gather information to make informed decisions going forward. After all, it is the commissioners in Minnesota counties that under Minnesota Statute 206.58 AUTHORIZATION FOR USE Subdivision 3. Counties that have the authority to use electronic voting systems (or not to use them). 

Now, 206.58 was amended by the 93rd Minnesota Legislature to read: Once a municipality has adopted the use of an electronic voting system in one or more precincts, the municipality must continue to use an electronic voting system for state elections in those precincts. Some, including myself, were worried about this because it seems to mandate the use of electronic equipment which has been shown to facilitate fraud. 

However, it was recently pointed out by Susan in a presentation on November 14, 2023 in Buffalo that the current amended law is an example of an ex post facto law; laws cannot be drafted to take effect retroactively. When the municipalities opted to use an electronic voting system in the past, did they know that this decision could tie their hands in the future? 

In a separate conversation it was raised that there would be a way around the statute as written, which would be to draw new precincts. However, I'm in favor of challenging the amended law in that I agree it is ex post facto. The statute cannot stand as written *or* municipalities need to be given the choice to decide for the next election whether they want to bind themselves to electronic voting systems so long as the statute exists.

When this amended law plus the amended Chapter 13 statutes banning the release of the ballot image portion of the cast vote records was shared with the Anoka County commissioners in Summer 2023, I believe that a few of them finally understood the gravity of the concerns the people there had been sharing meeting after meeting.

This would not be the only Sherburne County commissioner meeting that I would attend, nor the most interesting.

On July 12, 2022, the Office of the Secretary of State sent their number two man, David Maeda, to speak along with the Sherburne County Auditor, during a county commissioner meeting, about whether the new Dominion voting sytem was indeed a new voting system or not. In the public comment, Rick explained how it was, followed up by several additional speeches on same. A point picked up (visually) by the papers was a large 65-mile-per-hour speed limit sign to emphasize that ignorance of the law does not prevent one from breaking it. 

In the prior couple of weeks, in a matter of days, two people had informed the cities and townships across Sherburne County that they had not given the statute-required 60-day notice nor public demonstration of the new electronic voting system. 

In the July 12, 2022 meeting Gary spoke about the history of 4.14E and the purchase of 5.15C, a clearly new system as Rick would also explain. 

This argument, made with documents from the Election Assistance Commission confirming that going from 4.14 to 5.15 constitutes a new system, was the crux of a Minnesota Supreme Court filing, case number A22-1081, Kieffer v. Governing Body of Municipality of Rosemount, which was dismissed on laches, not with prejudice, prior to the August 9, 2022 primary elections in Minnesota.

As a statewide candidate for Minnesota Secretary of State, I also signed onto this case. Sherburne County as well as its municipalities used the new Dominion system in the 2022 primary election.

Separate from the point of this case, which is that election law wasn't followed, a news story developed when Drew was attacked by the son of a council member in Rosemount when serving papers. (In future, issues, concerns, complaints, and the like should be able to be made directly with the Office of the Secretary of State, with the Minnesota Secretary of State representing the state's chief election officer, to avoid awkward and dangerous situations of service as occurred in Rosemount that evening. This goes for election contests as well, which are very difficult to file within a window with the constraints of delivering service.)

Over a year later, minutes before his trial on September 11, 2023, Drew was pressed by the prosecution to settle, but he did not. And then the case was dropped by the prosecution pursuant to Minnesota Statute 30.01. 

Was this entire case meant to punish this man (and his family) for simply helping to deliver service on a case which rightly shined a light where Minnesota statutes with regard to elections were not being followed? 

There is a bigger point to make, in a subsequent chapter, about the pressure asserted against those trying to get to the truth, related to the primary author of the petition in A22-1081.

But now, back to the July 12, 2022 commissiooner meeting...

After the meeting's conclusion, a crowd gathered around David Maeda to ask more questions. I was on the edge, so only learned later what was said, which was an admission according to those who heard that he might have inadvertently misled people by his comments in the commissioner meeting, or misunderstood the point of the matter regarding the new system. 

Meanwhile I was nearby and struck up a conversation with the county administrator. He told me that the commissioners were happy with the risks of the Dominion systems. He also said that by asking for a public hearing on the matter of electronic voting systems in general, that we were asking for the wrong thing. It was a reminder that when working with government (never forget that the people are the government), the right language, definitions, and terminology should be understood and used. As was demonstrated that day, in my opinion, the representative of the Office of the Secretary of State got caught off guard because those speaking in favor of following the statute had done their homework and used language that he could not properly counter. David Maeda was seen leaving the building toward the parking lot, already on the phone, perhaps with the Office of the Secretary of State.

A22-1081 was soon filed in Rosemount and the Minnesota Secretary of State responded to the case, arguing essentially over the definition of 'new'. 

As ever, the people working for transparency, for legal ballots from legal voters to be counted, for oversight in the absentee ballot process, just want the laws on the books to be followed, because those laws are there to protect all voters and the trustworthiness of the election process itself.