# Chapter Five

I'm writing this on November 22, 2023. Yesterday I heard a man say that it was this day 60 years ago that he started having a problem with authority. Can only imagine the frustration of recognizing that the official narratives are way off but that few around you are as interested as you in sorting it out. The patience and persistence involved, to set worries aside, to remain focused on attaining peace, by so many, is something I am thankful for today. 

Every once in a while get a text or email thanking me for the work I'm doing. This encouragement is greatly appreciated. Though I do see it more as service. Not military service. I did not, at least in this life, serve in the military. But I'd like to think there are different kinds of service, that each of us can take turns. This service need not be in military uniform: In 2017 while removing invasive plant species from Father Hennepin Bluff Park below Saint Anthony Main and the historic A-Mill, which itself overlooks the Stone Arch Bridge, one of the women, age 70, said she thought everyone should do a year of community service upon retiring from their career. 

In what is remembered as his Peace Speech, which John Fitzgerald Kennedy gave on June 10, 1963, he asked, What kind of peace do we seek? Surely not an enforced peace which makes us all slaves. Five months prior the 35th president had signed Executive Order 11110 which issued $3.7 billion directly from the treasury, going around the Federal Reserve. I've learned a bit about the Federal Reserve, which is neither federal nor a reserve, but rather an instrument to exploit the masses and keep the rulers in power, from books like The Creature from Jekyll Island and The Economic Pinch, the latter by Charles A. Lindbergh, Sr., a congressman from Minnesota, who opposed the Federal Reserve Act (the immediate follow-on to the Aldrich Act), which established the central bank. Lindbergh asserted that to pass this act would be to sell the nation's grandchildren into slavery. Also of note, about 111 years ago (in April 1912), three prominent men who opposed the Federal Reserve, John Jacob Astor, Isador Strauss, and Benjamin Guggenheim, all were aboard the Titanic and died. Two other men (who it seems supported the Federal Reserve), J.P. Morgan, and E.L. Doheny, had apparently booked passage but cancelled before the ship's departure.

I think the reason this is notable is to show how the uniparty, even then, in 1912, manipulated things to get the Aldrich plan through (under another name) regardless of there being a new president from the other major party, Wilson. Furthermore, to remind us that there were indeed people wise to the nefarious and conspiratorial plan (hatched on Jekyll Island but no doubt planned for some time prior by the finance houses) but that these people—like Astor, Strauss, and Guggenheim—were done away with in spectacular fashion, with plausible deniability as to the intent. 

Such techniques are likely as old as time and have their echoes in even more recent years, a variant of which was already mentioned regarding Seth Rich, who Julian Assange indicated was the Wikileaks source for the Clinton and Podesta emails which it seems dealt a massive blow to Hillary's 2016 campaign. Rich would have to be punished, surely, for exposing the truth.

So, how can there ever be peace of mutual respect when such criminal syndicates and people, who are willing to commit murder and worse, remain loose on and under the landscape all across the planet? 

I don't know that there can be. Which perhaps is why Commander in Chief Trump has so often emphasized law and order (as well as laws and orders). Even the actor who is playing "Biden" (James Woods, George Clooney, Jim Carrey?) when asked by Trump in the first presidential debate whether he supported law and order, said he supported law and order with justice where people get treated fairly, and the fact of the matter is violent crime went down 17 percent, 15 percent, during our administration. 

By the way, that 17 percent is a nod to Q (from "Biden"!... who says "17 percent 15 percent"?), the 17th letter of the alphabet, as well as the Q posts, broadcast to the world starting October 28, 2017, it seems to me by a team with Q clearance helping to guide people like you and me all across the world through the various stages of the storm. If you're not following this, that's okay, because we will all find out... Rewatching that presidential debate broadcast now makes me smile because it is a brilliant performance from whomever is playing "Biden" but also from President Trump, who would have known "Biden" was an actor (from well before he came down the escalator four days after the Department of Defense published the Law of War manual on June 12, 2015).

In a sting operation of this magnitude, a bit of trickery is needed. As a friend of mine has said, it doesn't do to hack at the branches; much better to take an axe to the root. (And as already discussed, the puppet government, first with Donald John Trump at the helm, and then "Biden", fit into the continuity of operations plan, or continuity of government, side by side with the military occupancy, laid out in book forthcoming from Derek Johnson.)

And this operation does have magnitude, considering that in order to reduce or eradicate syndicates capable of sinking ships to eliminate their enemies or getting away with ordering murder in broad daylight, the operation by definition must be conducted with worldwide support partners (as indicated in 50 USC 33 §1550).

Coming back to President John Fitzgerald Kennedy's speech, again, known as his Peace Speech... JFK answers his opening question about what kind of peace do we seek with this: 

I am not referring to the absolute, infinite concept of universal peace and good will, of which some fantasies and fanatics dream. I do not deny the value of hopes and dreams, but we merely invite discouragement and incredulity by making that our only and immediate goal. Let us focus instead on a more practical or attainable peace based not on a sudden revolution in human nature, but on a gradual evolution in human institutions, on a series of concrete actions and effective agreements which are in the interest of all concerned. There is no single simple key to this peace. No grand or magic formula to be adopted by one or two powers. Genuine peace must be the product of many nations, the sum of many acts. It must be dynamic, not static, changing to meet the challenge of each new generation, for peace is a process, a way of solving problems. With such a peace, there will still be quarrels and conflicting interests, as there are within families and nations. World peace like community peace does not require that each man love his neighbor, it requires only that they live together in mutual tolerance, submitting their disputes to a just and peaceful settlement. And history teaches us, that enmity between nations, as between individuals, do not last forever. However fixed our likes and dislikes may seem, the tide of time and events will often bring surprising changes in the relations between nations and neighbors. So let us persevere. Peace need not be impractical. And war need not be inevitable. By defining our goal more clearly, by making it seem more manageable and less remote, we can help all people to see it, to draw hope from it, and to move irresistibly towards it.

I have said it many times this past year, that a lasting peace is within reach, certainly within our lifetimes, at least on this planet, as I daily learn of all the preparation and work that has been done since Trump came down the escalator and the cleanup of trafficking was declared with orders like EO13818.

Because America is not alone in this effort. One of our many allies, Viktor Orbán, Prime Minister of Hungary, has recently said that he has a peace strategy, which contrasts the war strategy set by the current European model built in Brussels; Orbán's and Hungary's is a peace strategy which I think will be increasingly adopted.

But Orbán's peace strategy connects back to the peace strategy set out and agreed to by the planetwide military alliance currently in operation. Donald John Trump's 2017 tour to Riyahd, to Beijing's Forbidden City, to North Korea, to the United Kingdom, to the Vatican, and with Putin in Hamburg... these were perhaps part of the agreements necessary to establish peace but also symbolic to show the world what was about to happen.

Presidents Lincoln and Kennedy both went around the Federal Reserve, Lincoln with the greenbacks and Kennedy with the silver certificates. Both were assassinated. But the Federal Reserve, and central banks worldwide, cannot operate as they have been for peace to exist, and so President Trump and the operation have disrupted them. And yet Commander in Chief Trump has not been assassinated. 