# Chapter Seven

Elections Systems & Software (ES&S) is headquartered in Omaha, Nebraska, and is a major electronic voting equipment vendor, operating in about 40 states.

https://www.eac.gov/sites/default/files/electionofficials/EMG/EAC_Election_Management_Guidelines_508.pdf

pg 43, the audit of the data

pg 66, the system acceptance test

requirement of a memory device to 









recap of Minnesota pushback against paper ballots 

this was helping Election Interference EO lol 

WOW 

if true, amazing! 

bullseye 

and shows why certain people had to resign...
like Dakota County Elections Manager 

maybe Matt Look too? 

we shall see 

was Tom Hunt put there to gather evidence, he worked in military... 



idea...

threats to hand count (email)

but keep in mind context of operation

covert sting op 

and 

hand count is only one aspect of getting accurate tally, but first need to have only legal ballots from legal voters...

were there any hand counts in 2023?



There are legislative and political threats. 

Legislative: 

Minnesota - HF1830: Mandates machine tabulation (came with making ballot images non-public)
Colorado - SB22-153: Bans hand counts 

Political: 

Baldwin
Haven 

Involved in Haven. Baldwin nearby. 

Post letters or links to the presentation on Rick's site to see letters... quote from them at least...


Addie writes 
Walz signed HF1830 in to law. Making hand counts illegal. 
...

Hi Addie, 

Someone wrote in reply to my recent post: 
Walz signed HF1830 in to law. That makes hand counts illegal. 

My reply: 
I'm not sure if you've read the amended law and related statutes. But your conclusion is incorrect. 

No law against hand counting. Counties may still hand count side by side with machine count. Also, for local (non-state) elections, hand count with NO machines is also legal. Please consider organizing and asking for this in your area, starting with townships/cities/counties.

Finally, I do not accept the corrupt law which is foisting machines which facilitate fraud onto the county election staff. That is not fair to them because they may want to use hand counts which are cheaper and more accurate. 

It was a big mistake to pass this law because people like you and me have the responsibility to raise awareness about this so as to reverse it. 

Keep up the good work!

Thank you, 
Erik