# Conclusion

“They have a narrative problem.” 
— Derek Lind

***

Most elections in America are able to be rigged and likely have been rigged for a long time. In recent years, with a fully integrated electronic system, the cheater's toolbox has expanded beyond mere ballot stuffing to more sophisticated approaches. Now, every one of the four components of the election ecosystem, from voter registration, to voter validation, to tabulation, to reporting, can be controlled and fine-tuned to engineer an outcome. Any election can be undermined subtly not only with a high level of precision but also without the knowledge of most voters and most election officials, as we have seen. 

Newly [s]elected officials may go on to pass laws which further corrupt an already corrupted process, such as the mandating of electronic voting equipment that have modems inside (which can facilitate fraud) and making the cast vote record ballot images non-public data (removing the public's ability to audit the tabulation component of the ecosystem): both of these were passed in Minnesota's 93rd legislative session concluded in May, 2023.  

It is possible that manual hand counting, which is part of a transparent solution to a host of present issues with tabulation and reporting, could be banned—indeed, the Minnesota Legislature in 2024 did everything they could except to ban it, probably more deceptive than outright doing so, ordering election workers to "immediately seal" ballots at the close of polls, preventing spot checks or quick hand counts by election judges.

Elections, which were once locally controlled at the county or precinct level, are now in the hands of the state or non-governmental entities, often private corporations. Instead of adhering to stricter cybersecurity standards and rigorous transparent audits, the contracts that counties or collections of counties have with the corporations that effectively determine the outcomes of elections continue to favor secrecy instead of transparency, further eroding trust with the public. 

On October 13, 2016, Trump said: "This is not simply another 4-year election. This is a crossroads in the history of our civilization that will determine whether or not We The People reclaim control over our government."

I do not like everything that the Trump administration did or has done even so far in 2025, but that statement implied that we were heading into uncharted territory. Not a crossroads in America's history but a "crossroads in the history of our civilization". Human civilization on Earth. (Because the conflict is likely not limited to the surface of this realm.) "Reclaiming" perhaps because a telling event occurred in 1963 when America's own intelligence agencies signed off on the assassination of a president who on June 10, 1963 spoke powerfully about peace. "Whether or not" because We the People do have a choice: We can reclaim our rightful and righteous position as a check and balance against the first three branches of government, or we can continue to allow the intelligence agencies and non-state actors to control the flow of information and much else. That would be to act like slaves and be treated that way.

Those who see themselves as the slave owners-those who look down on you who are reading this book—they perhaps do not understand your motivation. Patient persistence towards peace is an everlasting fountain. From that enduring source we are constantly renewed. Unfortunately, all this may not be entirely peaceful, as has been shown especially in recent years where people who have no problem harming children have done so overtly. 

This short book has been an update to [S]elections in Minnesota. The original was written briskly across three weeks and published in late June, 2022, with again brief edits made in the summer of 2024. Finally, for now, these edits have been made in a single day, March 9, 2025, as other fictional projects have taken precedence to more attractively draw the public into the depths of the control that has been put on them in the election domain. 

The good news is, that as Derek Lind of Ramsey has said, "They have a narrative problem." Most of those defending the electronically-controlled, mail-in heavy system tend to omit inconvenient facts or outright lie about the dangers of the status quo. Even Secretary of State Steve Simon has had to answer questions in multiple counties about reports of advocates advising going to paper poll books instead of the centrally-accessible electronic poll pads from KNOWiNK. It's only a matter of time before more cities follow in the footsteps of Oak Grove and Ramsey in Anoka County, who have cancelled their leasing agreements with the county. Indeed, even the commissioner level education and courage is increasing, with 2 Anoka County commissioners voting on February 25, 2025 NOT to buy the KNOWiNK poll pads, one citing the possibility of scalable fraud and the other prefering the cities had a choice.

These stories and more are likely to be found on Project Minnesota or in the aforementioned fictional books to come.

For an example of these fictional approaches to rediscovering the truth, see the last chapter in this book, where Susan is called to a hearing in April of 2021, anticipated as an excerpt in an upcoming book detailing judicial and legal interference with public oversight of elections.

***

*Thank you for reading [S]elections in Minnesota. The digital versions, both written and audio, will remain free forever. If you enjoyed it, please share it with a friend, even a brand new friend.*

[Selections in Minnesota](https://leanpub.com/sim2020)
