{sample: true}
# Preface - It's Time

*“I have a message to share from God.”* 

—Andrei, Top A and inventor of [Project Apario](https://projectapario.com), a biblical table flip on the idea of the mainstream media 

***

Enough is enough. 

Last night Michael Jackson's 'Man in the Mirror' came on the radio.

It's time to make that change.

Half a year ago in May 2022 I began the first draft of *[S]elections in Minnesota: How Machines Controlled 2020 and Why We Must Return to Hand Counting Paper Ballots*. The book was published digitally a few weeks later in June, 2022, with the paperback version debuting on June 26, 2022.

Minnesotans in growing numbers are learning the truth about the charade that are our so-called elections and how few currently elected representatives seem to be on the side of the people as evidenced by their email, phone, and in-person interactions, let alone any tangible efforts. Unsurprising once a light is shone on how easy it is to undermine the people's hoped-for outcomes to select a kind of person unwilling to fight from within the system that chose them, whether or not that individual realizes they were selected, not elected. 

Measureable desire for change was already clear on August 9, 2022. My 90-day Minnesota Secretary of State campaign garnered 36.9% of the vote (nearly 111,000 votes) running as a republican alternative to the MNGOP-endorsed candidate. I ran on a single issue: repairing elections with particular focus on the spider web of the electronic voting system that entangles alert and unsuspecting voters alike. It is a system with many features. Cheating can happen after the polls close. Votes can be hijacked from people who didn't even vote. A ballot inserted into a tabulator won't necessarily read a voter's choices accurately.

In a massive show of transparency, none of the 87 Minnesota counties even released the automatically-generated cast vote record (CVR) reports from that primary election. Like any election, without a full forensic audit of ballots, ballot envelopes, election equipment, and registration systems, the results can never be confirmed by the voters, which was reason enough for countries like Germany to do away with electronic voting equipment altogether. But the election fraud deniers, starting with the mainstream media, continue their tired talking points. But so effective is their repetition that some come to believe their banal lies and repeat them like Mr. Smith taking over a civilian's body in *The Matrix*. Most election clerks and auditors robotically claim they are following election law while withholding basic data requested from their offices in violation of data practice laws. And still potential allies ask, Where's the proof? 

It's time to flip the table. 

Was the purpose of more tech concentrated in a handful of companies really to make our elections *less* transparent? Less comprehensible? With data increasingly centralized in the hands of Secretaries of State?

Or could it be that the intricately connected companies comprising the election process like Runbeck, Dominion, ES&S, ERIC, and Konnech be exactly what it looks like? In 1910 men representing a quarter of the planet's wealth secretly met on Jekyll Island to prepare the way for The Federal Reserve Act of 1913, which Minnesota's Charles A. Lindbergh opposed, suggesting its passage meant selling children and grandchildren into slavery. The Federal Reserve Act of 1913 established a banking cartel. What we are witnessing now is the exposure of the election cartel and all its players. Their attempt to completely subvert elections was total and made [Bev Harris and Bennie Smith's Fraction Magic](https://t.me/erikmn/2206) look like child's play.

Many countries have already fallen to the election cartel's schemes in recent decades. Brazil is fighting back with protests seeking military action. Americans are holding the line in places like Arizona with a different set of tools not available to Brazilians. We are doing it by the book. The 2020 and 2022 elections will not stand.

At day's end the illusion of a functioning election process is just one of many programs to uninstall from society, alongside global financial controls like the Fed and central banks, medical tyranny orchestrated by the WHO, and the captivity of your USA Inc. birth certificate and social security number. 

This deprogramming and deconditioning is necessary because the current programming and conditioning enables the old guard through lower level participants who know not what they do and who often act without informed consent. 

It is remarkable that together We the People with guidance from God Almighty through Jesus's example and frequency have gotten this far without civilization level collapse. With active thermonuclear weapons for some decades, the war games have been touch and go for a while now. Staged and legitimate bio and information threats further complicate matters. 

No one said it would be easy to advance. But with the tools we have at our disposal, we can and we will.

The first edition of this book was written quickly and contained many mistakes. Thankfully readers were forgiving and even shared it both with one another and with their county commissioners, making it an uncensorable resource for truth and an antidote to wilful ignorance and plausible deniability.

In this second edition, corrections have been made and updates are given in the following areas: 

- key data points from late June through November 2022
- anecdotes from meetings and conversations with grassroots leaders country-wide
- county-level highlights, notes, and suggestions from a dozen Minnesota counties

May we all work together to end global communism and in God's time find peace and happiness.

God bless you, 
Erik van Mechelen
November 20, 2022
