# Chapter 9 - Where We Go From Here

On the offense.

Gregg Phillips has said, "They don't like playing defense. They don't know how to play defense."



any credentials?

speak around MN about the machines
starting in Rochester, june 12
elsewhere?

mn chapter of america's audit force since september 2021

county commissioner meetings, dakota, sherburen, wright, morrison county commissioners
called how many? 12
CVR requests to ... etc.


What Led Me Here

This is my seventeenth year living in Minnesota, although my family returned to Stevens County each year in my youth from Texas, Gabon, Louisiana, Indonesia, and China, where my dad's work as a geophysicist brought us. In 5th grade and 7th grade (as secretary) I served in the student council, and was later named or voted captain of several sports teams, including my college soccer team which went to the NCAA tournament. After college, I worked four years in the inventory and software divisions at Target in Minneapolis before investing in myself as a freelance writer for the past eight years. I've assisted governors with a USA Today article and a military veteran with his autobiography, cowrote several books, one a Wall Street Journal bestseller, and helped about 90 authors choose the title of their book.

With a growing understanding of what happened on November 3rd, 2020, life took a turn. After working with grassroots Minnesotans seeking audits, I attended Mike Lindell's Cyber Symposium in Sioux Falls, South Dakota in August 2021. There I met people like Draza Smith, Seth Keshel, Mark Cook, and Col. Phil Waldron and also learned from people like Col. Shawn Smith, Patrick Colbeck, Joe Oltmann, and Professor David Clements. Here in Minnesota, I've continued to absorb much from people like Rick Weible and Susan Smith, as well as from those attending county commissioners meetings in Crow Wing, Dakota, and Sherburne County. Several dozen more men and women could be listed to whom I am grateful.

These experiences and relationships were vital in preparing me to not only make the decision to run for Minnesota Secretary of State, but also to become the servant leader necessary to resolve our election problems, preserve election integrity, and restore confidence to all Minnesota voters that their constitutional right to vote (and to not be disenfranchised of that right) is fully protected.

Outside of learning about elections, I enjoy running, gardening, and playing the piano.

Hebrews 12:1 (KJV) reads "Wherefore seeing we also are compassed about with so great a cloud of witnesses, let us lay aside every weight, and the sin which doth so easily beset us, and let us run with patience the race that is set before us."




TITLE
Simulations in Minnesota: An Introduction to How Machines Controlled 2020 and Why We Must Return to Hand Counting Paper Ballots

machine free
end rigged elections
have real elections again (for the first time)
