{sample: true}
# Chapter One - Minnesota No. 1 in Voter ~~Turnout~~ Fraud

Near the basement entrance to VFW Post 494 in Crystal, MN, I was soon asked whether I would like to wear a sticker by a man working with one of the campaigns. When I declined he said, "I understand not wanting to be a walking poster." Nodding, I pulled back my jacket to reveal my t-shirt and said, "But I already am."

The t-shirt read:

Minnesota, No. 1 in Voter ~~Turnout~~ Fraud

Instead of a walking poster for any one candidate, I would go on to advocate for the issue I was surprised to learn that few wanted to discuss that day.

At this, the CD5 Convention of the Minnesota Republican Party, nearly 17 months after the November 3rd, 2020 General Election, very few if any speakers acknowledged that the election was rigged and none mentioned electronic voting equipment (epollbooks, tabulators, election management systems). Stating the obvious would surely have scored them political points (or so I thought) so why was almost everyone shying away? Only by plainly stating the problem is there any chance of going about fixing it. What's more, at this late hour, we're at a moment where surface level issues of the election coup are obvious—because elections have consequences we are witnessing the decades long result of leaders being (s)elected, not elected. It is easy to complain and feel good about knowing some fact that your neighbor may not yet know. But now the focus should be on solutions and taking action toward them. In the realm of elections, there are simple remedies to the overly complex and easily exploitable system currently in place.

Rolling back the clock a bit, I don't pretend that I understood exactly what was happening on November 3rd, 2020 as it was happening. On election night (and day 46 of the absentee voting period in Minnesota), I had gone to bed early having read that absentee ballots in some states did not need to be fully counted for some days yet. Who would it benefit to have the work done so as to declare the winner on election night? The American people. But the failed and corrupt political establishment did not want that.

When I woke up, and in the following days, I became gradually aware of the many things wrong with our election process and systems. Many of which, whether legislative, procedural, or technical, are design features, not bugs. The breach of the border between legal and ethical domains has helped naysayers and coverup artists stall efforts to correct what went awry, but eventually God's tortoises will beat Lucifer's hares.

Although I'd been properly jolted from my comfortable lifestyle it took a good deal of time and effort to equip myself to understand better what had happened, how it had been done, when and where, and by whom. The answers to Why? have produced further inquiry at times beyond the scope of this text.

Whenever possible I'd like to focus on the open source intelligence. The raw data. (Increasingly, this is the approach more people will take realizing they cannot trust even their favorite newscasters, influencers, and reporters to draw conclusions from the data on their behalf – truth repositories akin to Project Apario's proof of concept will grow in popularity and importance.) Since I voted and live in Minnesota, the focus will be in the land of more than 14,000 lakes [https://seagrant.umn.edu/news-information/directors-column/minnesota-land-how-many-lakes](about 14,380).

Even while focusing on verifiable facts, I will not hesitate to ask questions or suggest routes you may walk yourself. And remember, the truth will resonate from within. There is great potential within each of us. Be humble and do not underestimate your ability to search, research, dig, and discern. May God grant us allow wisdom, strength, and discernment to carry the burden that is His truth. Only then may we see clearly and help others also come to see the lies and therefore remove the power of that deception.
