title/chapter 18, §2384, and §2381




https://t.me/NewMexicoAuditForce/2201

Let's keep hammering the EAC... Did you know they oversaw the distribution of $400 Million from the CARES ACT.

Yea the same EAC who:

-signed a financial conflict of interest waiver allowing companies like Dominion handle the "physical security, cyber security, and emergency preparedness of the nation’s election infrastructure"

-certified and accredited Dominion VS

ALSO OVERSAW THE DISTRIBUTION OF $400 m of our tax dollars...

How did some of these states spend that?

1/2

***

From phone call w/ Rick Weible Monday, June 6

defaulted ON
as people started questioning over times
2015/2017
started turning off
emergency release, court case... recommendations applicable
2017 court case, AP referenced on March 31st, caused issue, stating that Dominion machines this software package were vulnerable, 16 states, CISA admits not all states doing updates on operating system,
5.5A

Haan county South Dakota
watermark new security feature testing
easy to circumvent
refuses
errors out
red stamp
but scribble into that area, it accepts the ballot
county auditor,
published that video, county auditor south dakota

relying on vendors

count the ballots by hand

replaced machines by employees

dakota county,

gretchen county commissioners,

on the ballot for precinct committeeman.

thursday canvass for wife's eleciton

challenge elections
^
how to do that
^
es&s
challenge the laws and processes

brookings county, SD
listed his county office at county as campaign headquarters, polling location, against the law

friday - new election equipment deadline
proper notice,
may be forced to go to handcount

206.58
authorization for use
municipality
at regular meeting or special
one or more or all precincts
subject by auditor


filed complaint against canvassing board nov 24
karyn brawn
she has to respond and take him to task personally
i Rick have to file complaint against judicial temperament

next iteration , with jane volz, before dec 1 deadline
Susan, Judge Castro with petition

2021, and what actions taken in 2022

some county activists successful in changing conduct of elections
more volunteers
more successful in getting data so as not to be messed around with
better records to Counties
activitist with mn voter alliance, pressuring party balance,
county auditors, know more eyes looking at process of elections
more people aware
they now understand the process
building

any thoughts on that
call WCCO
Alpha News
senate districts - endorsed candidates
America Majority, as a fundraiser
Voter Alliance
Brian ...
Wes Lund - non party

debate Steve Simon ???

evidence

1.5 year -
jane volz attorney
resident of dakota county, pictures of pieces of paper of hand count, 5 precincts
which precinct
please send copies of hand written sheets that election judges filled out and send me what you're sending secretary Simon
here's what we sent mr Simon and other copies have been shredded
1.5 year later, kim asks for all post-election reviews since 2020, including hand written - but they are different from original ones Jane Volz has pictures of
some are same
but some slash marks are different
some of the counts are
3950? west st. paul
4950, one of the ones adjusted on the paper work
have him, nailed for sure on election fraud
presented false information to attorney
says it was shredded
some original that picture taken of matches those in our stack

keep knowledge base intact

school board race, kim's race
county and school board giving each other stink eye
numbers don't match

get the spectrum
bewteen wright / dakota
sherburne and anoka
olmsted
carver
what would work, where would we see resistance
carver county, resistance from republicans is stunning (buffaloed by county commissioners, scared of their own shadow)





60 day notice
AND
6 weeks prior to an election
election day? august 9,
or
first day of absentee balloting - june 24
electronic voting system

206.56 subd 8
an electronic voting sys includes ....

Subd. 8.Electronic voting system.

"Electronic voting system" means a system in which the voter records votes by means of marking a ballot, so that votes may be counted by automatic tabulating equipment in the polling place where the ballot is cast or at a counting center.

An electronic voting system includes automatic tabulating equipment; nonelectronic ballot markers; electronic ballot markers, including electronic ballot display, audio ballot reader, and devices by which the voter will register the voter's voting intent; software used to program automatic tabulators and layout ballots; computer programs used to accumulate precinct results; ballots; secrecy folders; system documentation; and system testing results.

^
all disabilities are part of that system

new dominion 5.5C - as voter or candidate
they're toast


***




***


image from kaliv in audit force... when the edison zero happened...



COME BACK HERE

Cruise Control

From Erin:
I'd recommend watching the first part of the Otero County Commission meeting we did a few weeks ago and using some of those talking points from Mr. Lenburg. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Fg6Gf6QjqGM&t=939s
^
from Erin
