# Items to Request 

Consider 13.1 and 13.3, Government Data 

Public! 

Why are you requesting?
Some hunch. 
Or just wanting to learn, for discovery purposes... follow the money. 
See L D's on Sherburne.
Konnech contract, is this there? 

Things to request: 

In General

-data (explore data types)
-communication between vendor (ES&S, Dominion, Hart InterCivic) regarding "Absentee" or "..." (see Jeffrey O'Donnell's guide, https://magaraccoon.com/foia.html)
(example, how to manually update votes in absentee module)
-...

From Office of the Secretary of State (OSS)

- voter file, county or state 

these are one-time... stitch together for larger picture (like Rick W)


From County

-address to authority (call to find out)


From City 

NARRATIVES: 
-History of CVR requests 
-Tabulator logs
-Thumb drives, for CVR
-Grants, grant applications
-PER materials

-Konnech 


Katherine Engelbrecht, True the Vote 
Gregg Phillips, OPSEC
Eugune Yu 

Konnech Inc. 
PollChief

Kanekoa's reviews - including his request for more research...
onto Chinese sites, etc. (find that)

Hennepin County email saying there is no contract with Konnech Inc. 
Technically correct. 

angela.conley@hennepin.us
binta.kanteh@hennepin.us
shanese.reed@hennepin.us
ward2@minneapolismn.gov
ward4@minneapolismn.gov
jason.chavez@minneapolismn.gov
ward11@minneapolismn.gov
ward5@minneapolismn.gov
andrew.johnson@minneapolismn.gov

Commissioner Conley,

Given recent revelations regarding Konnech Inc. leading to arrest of its CEO Eugene Yu, I am proposing an agenda item to discuss the appropriateness of Minneapolis's recent extension of Contract No. C-40044 with Konnech, Inc.

Hennepin County would not be the first to consider or reconsider its contract. You can learn more about this very important matter here:
https://kanekoa.substack.com/p/konnech-ceo-eugene-yus-ties-to-ccp

As Child Well-being Advisory Committee Chair, you may also be interested to know that Konnech has connections into school systems in the United States meaning the CCP likely has sensitive data on children, parents, teachers, and administrators. http://www.schoolbrief.com/schoolcase.html

Including on this email council members Robin Wonsley, LaTrisha Vetaw, Jason Chavez, and Emily Koski who made up the 4-member quorum present to approve the amendment to Contract No. C-40044 which extended and expanded the contract, as well as on that day absent council members Jeremiah Ellison and Andrew Johnson.

Thanks,
Erik van Mechelen

30? days go by, no response from Minneapolis, but they were not addressed in initial email.

Realized need to formalize my ask: 

-initial contract
-proper vetting (internal communications)
-...

https://lims.minneapolismn.gov/Download/PriorFileDocument/-52344/WCMS1P-148961.PDF
"Services to be performed are coordination with
City personnel relating to the successful implementation of a new Elections System, as well as
the successful transfer of data from the City’s current program to the new system."

What was the new Elections System?
What does transfer of data look like? 

"The City’s Elections Management System is at a crossroads. The current system does not meet
the needs of Elections and Voter Service."

How was this determined? 

"A significant investment from both Information
Technology (IT) and Elections would be needed to add the required functionality to the existing
system."

What is the "required functionality"?

https://lims.minneapolismn.gov/Download/PriorFileDocument/-63781/WCMSP-186604.PDF

In April 2015, Information Technology and City Clerk’s Office issued a Request for Proposal (RFP) for the design, implementation and support of a commercial-off-the-shelf (COTS) Elections Management System, along with ancillary software and services. After a thorough vetting, Konnech was the awarded vendor for this system. 

Based upon the recent primary election, additional enhancements were found necessary to be implemented before the November 2016 general election. These enhancements will allow for better reporting, improved training functionality, tracking the core volunteers, and gaining staffing efficiencies.

Describe the "thorough vetting" process.
Expand on "tracking the core volunteers".
Point or provide evidence for "improved training functionality".


https://lims.minneapolismn.gov/RCA/1029

"Customizations are necessary to better match the business processes and the laws that govern the election process and allow greater enhancement of the application to better align this software.  In addition, mobile apps and greater reporting functions are available that were outside the original scope that will help streamline the business processes."

Describe "customizations are necessary".
Expand on "mobile apps and greater reporting functions". 





drive through towns, i'm shocked

cosmos, highway 7 

spirited, gnomes
decorate water tower
milky way

voter turnout, mail-only precinct
42% 
did not voter58%
a lot of signage
very low turnout?
additional discovery
-did people lose their ballot 
-

in-person voting precincts...
some areas in Carver
not good voter turnout
Chanhassen, 
Chaska, 36% (total in person + absentee)
Norwood Young America, 32.8% didn't vote 

Wright County 

Dakota County 
suppressed areas in Eagan, Burnsville, Farmington 
even Delanoe
Buffalo, 3 precincts, 37% not voting 
Albertville, 36% not voting 
look for high number of voters, where there is 750 
growth, didn't connect
problem of candidates not active enough? 


percentage ... 

percentage ... 

not engaged
disenfranchized 
why wasn't turnout there? 
in some areas but not other areas 

did Jensen really hurt us in the end 
no positive message
surplus, $1k back
vote for legislators that are 

voter turnout in wright, anoka, 
key cities
didn't show up
concerning
alarming 






anoka's test deck
what was it like? 
sufficient to catch any anamolies ?
willing to run another test deck against their machines?
if they have any extra ballots to do it 
(not under any timeline)


























central SD, 12-18in 



might stay home... 



mail-in 

mail-out

automatically mailed out, assumed
total not voting in mail precincts that i would assume got mail-out ballot
45,493
total mail sent and didn't vote 
registered at 7am
153,930
2,211 edr 
most precincts, no signatures (in person)
somehow, 1,671 signatures (went to courthouse and voted?)
absentee/mail-in (combined)(could be requested another ballot)
111,168
20 fed only 

mail-in precincts, 
112,859
avg of 29% did not vote
stories
high percentages where they didn't vote 

hill city, aitkin, 52% didn't vote 
turtle lake township, cass, 38.1% did not vote 

wright county 

city of lafayette, nicollet county, 40% did not vote 

rose creek, mauer county, 37% did not vote

pierce township, morrison, 38% did not vote 

cosmos, 42.5% did not vote 


45,000 votes sitting on table 
could have had another 10k votes


wright county 
anoka county 

even more stunning

600-1,200 in a precinct that didn't vote 

lopsided
after redistricting 
should have been cleaned up
wright county, 4,000 registered, buffalo precinct 1
1,900 voters not turn out 
37.84% did not vote 
leaning republican voter, outer suburbs, colleged educated, independent working on their own, schools/crime 
albertville, 1,100 ppl didn't vote, 36%
why didn't voters turn out? 

woodbury, 41% 
150 ballots/votes

woodbury, precinct 1 
952 ballots 

cottage grove in washington county 
32-35%
 👆👆👆
CANVASSING TO FIGURE OUT WHY PEOPLE DID NOT VOTE 

inner city performing better than suburbs - in terms of turnout  
photoshop? haha 
rough outline ... 
use my drawing tools? 
adobe? 
vector drawing... big scale? 
zoom in on areas 



data set comes in 
16 files
2 for each CD 
first file is voter registration data
2nd is voter history, well over 1M records

take 2 independently, filter out voter histories for elections i want 

3.6M records for registrations 

can also filter out 
walk lists based upon election areas 

multiple datasets

database to crunch 

11/23 - 12/21 - did voters get removed... 

have records, more i have, closer to when they actually voted 
if there is voter history already pegged for them 

lokken, you can't rely on that data 

could give cleaner data 

you can see your own voter history as it has changed throughout election cycle

can see voter history of how 

they can see status changes of voter... 

but we can only see slices, access (limited heavily)




only 45,000 make up mail-in precincts. 

350,000
automatically
single application 
nursing home conducting
organizations submitting absentee ballot on behalf of someone
(3rd party)
somebody walks into courthouse and votes that day
goes to courthouse and gets absentee and takes it
military, UOCAVA system

everything that is outside polling place, is absentee

600k, returned, accepted, counted 