
also check video card
from 
video camera, or the Seagate 1TB black





July 28 - <a href="https://t.me/erikmn/901" target=_new>Big Lake</a>
<br>
July 30 - 50 Miles to Support 50 States Returning to Hand Tallying Paper Ballots
<br>
Aug 1 - Public Tabulator Testing, Wright County, 9am
<br>
Aug 1 - St. Michael Theater, 2000 Mules, 6pm
<br>
Aug 2 - Sherburne County Commissioner Meeting
<br>
Aug 2 - Perham, 5pm
<br>
Aug 3 - Anoka Strategy Session
<br>
Aug 9 - Vote in the Primary Election, as late in day as possible
<br>
Aug 10 - 219k Minnesotans vote for TRUE election integrity
<br>
Aug 11 - Will counties certify their elections before releasing cast vote record report to the public for 100% transparency of machine results?
<br>
Aug 16 - Rochester (penciled in)
<br>
Aug 17 - 8pm online "Q & A" (link coming)
<br>
Aug 18 - St. Joseph, Sal's Bar and Grill
<br>
Aug 20/21 - <a href="https://momentoftruthsummit.com/" target=_new>Moment of Truth Summit</a>
<br>
To be announced: Standing in the Gap (The Doctrine of Lesser Magistrates)



Have invited Rick Weible as well but he may be occupied.

Won't need too much time today.

To share from me:

Determining priority of the below for coming months. Am curious to hear any feedback.

-public transparent elections story with Rick W (vs. current black box and mail-in)
-updating [S]elections in MN book (new data from late 2022 and grassroots stories)
-creating pamphlet, steps toward public, transparent elections in MN (for distributed county groups)
-evaluating Minnesota landscape (county auditors' offices, data access, legislation, open legal cases, electronic voting system, prevailing narratives, citizen journalists)

Thanks,

Erik van Mechelen


repeal 16/17th amendments

house, rep people
senate, state
fedaral...
balance has been lost 
16th, senators originally appointed by states, not popular voted

original purpose lost with the 17th amendment 



cause of america call dec 7

dec 28 next call




nationwide non profit

affadavits

certifications

machines



class on 

test decks - certify people

league of women voters, well i'm certified on test decks

is the city and county using certified test decks

well we meet state statute, minimum standards 

CVR, competency

in decrypting 




over time by 2024, are your election administrators certified or not?





longer call, then surprised what we were learning

sneak-peek, foyer in dakota county 

sat down and looked at serial numbers 

vision cast 30/60/90

study to hold Rick accountable

undercover at some meetings

how Rick asks questions

dakota county 

election director fired 
and his boss retiring 

cover all this 

sos divergence 

how hard it is 

snubbed shifted to side 

primary, big 

unreached activists to tap into 

who over time who have been disenfranchized 

vote doesn't matter

nothing i can do 

we were able to some things 

30-40 years to get into this mess

dakota - elections director being let go 

where successful

done better

WISH we would have done THIS

those with experience shouldn't walk away

trailblazers prior

but now steps, but we have very strong people that have stayed in

elections

pinnacle gateway how good or corrupt local or county govt is

so apparent 

volunteering

showing up for L&A, PER

basic q's, didn't have answers to 

so much learned

somehow we've become experts now? 

fine, if we are recognizing ourselves as experts

so let's make non profit and certify 

they are saying they are election officials

director, auditor, 

but do you understand how the machines actually work? 

no, stunning, cling to statutory requirements and that's it 

boy have we really missed the boat 



dakota 

step back, bigger picture

early set up, count shall be public, process ... voter intent

now somehow gotten machines, 

even EAC said CVR, no privacy req's

defined as supposed to be compatible with any system for decryption

elections officials no idea what CVR is 

buffaloed not to get them

not evaulating properly 

EAC says if one oval off in 500,000, have to re-evaluate 
and recalibrate 

stunning, 

if this is deck that's stacked against us

better not lose freedoms 

soft coup 



melody, huge learning curve
we can utilize best for movement 
what we're trying to tak one
govt sys and process is corrupt
tied to so much else
undo whole big thing - United States Inc. 
how to utilize volunteers?
30/6/9, here's goal, plan, adapt as go along 

education
- public
- county clerks

strategy (evaluating MN)


counties do group purchase for each of municipalities
muni's determine whether they hand count, use machines, or hybrid
BUT
now that uni-party, democrats have governorship, senate, and house
try to remove some of those rights from local municipalities

in SD
county-wide that makes decisions

in VA,
entire state legislature makes that distinction
once county makes that decision, can't go back 


pollpads (ipads)
42-45 days to get voter histories completed
state like MN
completely using pollpads, haven't adjusted time period
some counties not pushing button
to transfer to voter history
or absentee ballots
really?
anoka
ramsey, 95-98%
dakota, 1.1% complete 
in primary, did it, but didn't 


cvr
and
voter rolls / histories 
(how fast to get available?)

federal level
and within each of states
why NC, anyone can download voter rolls for free
MN 46$
SD 2,500
WI 12,000 
room for discussion to get better access 
poll tax approach
minority communities probably disenfranchized...to contact local citizens, idea sharing? 
restrictive states like SD and WI
poor can't buy lists to affect change in communities
a form of voter suppression 


legislation sub-group 
Paul? 
Nathan Wesenberg / Ben Davis 
setup new meeting with new chair
3 topics 
CVR, test decks, and info from counties 


how to keep volunteers engaged...

talking about education 

EDUCATION/EMAIL - want in? 
law per day
data insights, from Rick's
utilize volunteers
(charts/graphs, become resident expert for their county)

monthly reports of who has moved in / out
(canvassing)


**creating leaders**

to-do list at county level:
balance in ballot boards
city/county double dipping, check from elections division


Q for MN:
net delta dif 2020 to 2022
what happened to all absentee voters that didn't vote in 2022
why suppression of republican numbers as well? 
county level, many fewer voters
fraud? 
voters really not connected with candidates? 
what happened? 
lot of different groups doing soul searching in their states
whether they had candidates
something else
so much fraud... 


when you got into this project, what were your assumptions? 
and what surprised you most? in the journey
didn't expect? 

i didn't realize my county commissioners didn't understand
and 
didn't care

county rules established that referenced...

or

i didn't realize commissioners could care so little to have no oversight to let election officials make all the decisions

others were like

wow i thought my county was really conservative

but giving no info 


do this
this
this
this 

can't give you log files and CVR 
would show security vulnerabilities 

advanced GIS system 



monthly / quarterly update
rolling update
get just enough info
successes, here's the things they are working on 
re-establish 30/60/90 timeline
here i am, as new person
i've already lost ability to be part of canvassing PER
and yesterday MN just missed deadline for election challenges
Dec 15, all voter histories are supposed to be in 
teams for digital and physical canvassing 

some do want timelines
or
have seasons

end date for some people 
to take first step in 

AEON TIMELINE? 


ask Rick what are the immediate upcoming events? 
like Dec 15

transitioning mervins
dayton's to target
marketing/advertising
extended calendars bc of how things work
and manufacturing timelines

certain things that happen in election season
from SOS
to understand their deadlines
strategically lay out calendar of events
here we need volunteers for specific activities
Feb, purge month
get list right before purge
list afterwards
then analyze
why did they vote in 2022 and then get purged? 

laying out seasonal calendar
plotting it out there
here are the buckets
(in target days, deadline christmas stuff was Sep 15)
(if don't have product in, in main Distro warehouses, can't get into all stores)
(hard deadline)
(place orders by july 15 and all pictures done by Aug 1 for christmas circulars)
back out from the key dates
prework to have info from candidates for block walking 
info from NCOA list on monthly basis 
county auditors purging and NCOA (death...)
also
legislative seasons
SD, 40 days
MN, Jan - May
each state
bill into SD in first 20 days
MN, first 2 months
may have to keep track of factions
administrative corrections
or sneaky language, that they may just pass
same
in US congress, budget and debt ceiling
why not jim jordan and ted cruz, CVR are public domain ?


people to bug sec of state 


NCOA - new directory, ppl can start do digital canvassing 

put it on CoA, if works for MN, already funnelling, can duplicate model across rest of United States

one-drive directories to do digital canvassing 






1) Absentee/Mail-in "Ballots in the Wild" based on Serial Numbers:
Like checks written that weren't cashed (or accepted), there is big delta between ballots sent out and ultimately received as indicated by the serial numbers in SOS absentee/mail-out report. Serial number is in system AND on envelopes which are scanned once returned/accepted.

Caveat: Absentee is mixed with mail-out ballots for the 1,140 mail-ONLY precincts—therefore one more filter needed to know true absolute value of dangling absentee

Mail-ONLY precincts effectively get absentee 1 ballot for every active voter on registration list.

See attached Chart which visualizes gap between sent out and returned/accepted absentee.

2) Pick someone (or multiple) to be Four Core rep for Anoka with Seth Keshel's team.
https://skeshel.substack.com/p/four-for-the-election-integrity-core
email your county name to fourcore@proton.me

See you tomorrow,
Erik 
